---
layout: post
title: "Personal #1: why did I stop drinking?"
date: 2025-01-26
categories: [personal]
tags: [featured] 
image: images/butterfly-in-flight.jpg 
published: false
comments: false
---

*drinking steals the happiness from tomorrow.*

i'd rather not calculate how much drinking i've done since i turned 18 but i would hazard a guess that its probably about 1144 drinking sessions if we assume i drank twice every week for the last 11 years. how many of these session were enjoyable? probably like 95% of them - i really enjoy drinking and the social benefits that come with it. but was it necessary? i don't think so.

i'm going to outline some of the reasons why i stopped drinking. its been a month since i made my decision and my reasons are continually evolving.

## reason 1, made sometime after many drinking sessions in december 2024: 

**for my health.**

not that anything is particularly wrong but i've gained a tremendous amount of weight and i'm pretty sure it's because of the alcohol. bonus point: i feel like **ass** after drinking these days, i am not a spring chicken anymore :( so not drinking solves two health problems in one.

## reason 2, made a few weeks in Jan 2025 after reading a brilliant essay on the [gamification of life]([text](https://www.gurwinder.blog/p/why-everything-is-becoming-a-game)):

**control.**

to briefly summarise gurwinder's essay, he argues that gamification, once a tool used for good, is now being utilised by companies and society (probably indirectly) as a tool for control and manipulation. i found the essay to be incredibly profound - especially when thinking about how to live your life. its been on my mind whether the participation of drinking alcohol is somewhat part of a larger culture of gamification. in the sense that we drink to have fun and as an escapism from reality - we are essentially playing a game with reality and whilst this is fun in the short term, it has long term consequences.

think about it: we even use gaming terminology when we drink - "how many pints have you had?", "drinking games", "drinking chants: we like to drink with phillip because phillip is our friend!". could drinking culture and/or society have shaped acceptance of drinking alcohol to have fun as a form of gamification of life?

## reason 3, around the same time as reason 2:

**i would prefer not to.**

recently i've been delving a bit into philosophy of how to live your life. mostly stuff by zizek and simone weil. and the one thing that's struck me from both philosophers is how little control we actually have over our lives - particularly in a capitalist society. so as a promise to myself, take back one thing from capitalism that i can control - or more precisely, something to *consciously not participate in*. drinking alcohol has become my small act of *refusal*. 

just as a side not, 'i would prefer not to' is from 'bartleby the scrivener' by herman melville. the idea is centered around *capitalist realism* - the acceptance that capitalism is here to stay, and that there are no viable alternatives. by participating in capitalism, we are essentially fueling the capitalist machine. so maybe sometimes the better thing to do is to *refuse* to participate. not saying that i'm completely against capitalism, i'm not. i actually think it's a great system, but i do think that we should be more conscious of how we participate in it.


